>> Scott Moss: So if you go into
song.mongo you'll see something like this.
You'll see a schema that's
completely empty and
then you see all this
other stuff underneath it.
Let's take a note what's going on here.
First, we're importing Mongoose,
which is ODM.
We make an object called
schema that is empty.
We'll do some work in here in a minute.
And then what we do is we make something
called a song schema which is an instance
of a new mongoose.schema.
And basically that's just,
I'm taking this object.
I'm gonna create a mongoose schema from
this object using the new schema method.
And then what you do is you take that
schema and you create a model from it.
It's very similar to what
you do in most databases.
You create a schema.
That gives you a table.
You can think of it like this.
Except for a model, it's the table now.
So I'm creating a schema based off of
these rules that we have yet to define.
And then with that schema,
I'm going to create a model in
the database by this name called song and
I'm gonna reference it here so I can
use it to do things in my application.
>> Scott Moss: So this pattern you'll
see in almost every single model file.
This is the same pattern.
Create a schema, create a model,
export the model.
This model right here on line nine is the
thing that you will be using in your code
to create, find, delete, move, update.
That's what you'll be using for
that resource, populate.
All that's here.
Now the important part is this part right
here data modeling which is schema.
And actually how to create a schema.
So we have a lot of people here use Mongo.
Who here has used Mongoose schemas?
A few people, okay, so you pretty
much know how powerful they are.
You can do a lot of things.
We're not gonna get into really advanced
stuff like custom validators and
all that crazy stuff, but
we are gonna model some data here.
So there is some test
associated with this, so
you can just go whatever you want.
I'm writing to check every single field on
here, like required and all that stuff.
But let's just walk through how we can do
some of this stuff with the schema and
how it works with models.
So the way it works is you have
an object for your schema.
And then what you do is, the properties
on those objects are the names of
the fields that the object's gonna have.
So for instance,
let's just not worry about Song right now.
We're just gonna make
a completely different one.
So let's just call this one a dogSchema,
okay?
So this is a dogSchema.
And basically the way Mongoose needs it,
like I said,
the keys are the names
of the fields you want.
So what's something a dog would have?
>> Speaker 2: Name.
>> Scott Moss: Name, okay.
And now we have to tell
Mongoose what type this is.
So you could say String.
Mongoose uses the built-in natives
inside of JavaScript for the types.
So String, capital S,
is a native in JavaScript.
It's a native primitive type, right?
So we can say String.
We can also do a little bit more here.
We can say hey, type is String, which
is the same thing that I had before but
the reason I expanded on an object
is because I want to do something.
I want to make this required.
So I can say required true.
So this allows me to say hey,
a dog has a name whose type is string and
it is also required.
That's what that's saying.
I can also take it a step further and
say, you know what,
this name also has to be unique for
the entire database, so unique: true.
So now no two dogs can have the same name.
>> Scott Moss: So
let's move on to another one.
Let's say we wanted to
know if this dog was,
I don't know, old or not, I don't know.
IsOld, is it an old dog, right?
So, we say this is a type Boolean,
cuz it's true or false, so we'll put that.
We can also say this type is Boolean.
It is also required, but we're not gonna
make this unique cuz it's a Boolean,
that wasn't making any sense.
But we will give it a default of false.
By default, all dogs are not old,
unless you specifically say that it's old.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Do the types
have to be primitives, or
can you define complex
objects in the types?
>> Scott Moss: The types
have to be primitives.
>> Scott Moss: Actually, you know what?
Maybe you might be able to pass in,
depending on what version of Mongoose
you're on, I'll look it up after this.
But I would say it's safe
to use primitives for now.
But if you're asking me if you
can do things like this, or
I'm sorry, that's a bad example.
[LAUGH] More like Car, I would imagine no,
and if you could I would say probably stay
away from it, because now you're
referencing some class that's in the code,
when really you should be
referencing some other model, right?
So that's what you wanna do,
that's what we're gonna get to next.
So if you wanna reference another type,
that type should be a model,
not something that's code level,
something database level, right?
So if you wanna do that, so
if you can, I wanna reference the dog's
owner that would be some other shape.
So the way we would do that is let's
say this type is actually gonna
be mongoose.Schema with a capital S
.Types with a capital T .ObjectId.
It's really long.
Basically every id in Mongoose or
in Mongo really is called an object id.
It's technically an object, but
at read time it's really a string,
that's how they treat their IDs, so we're
saying this owner, its type is an ID.
But that alone is not good enough so
what we do is we say
ref imagine we have some owner model
somewhere, reference the owner model.
So this tells the mongoose is when we call
populate, I'm like hey, I wanna get a pet
whose name is Gary, and I want to also
get their owner, and populate the owner.
So it'll go get Gary,
it'll get us the name, the isOld.
And then for owner instead of giving
us back an ID, it'll take this ID,
go to the owner's model, and get
the owner with that ID, and put it here.
So this owner would no longer be an ID,
it'll be an object of the owner.
Gonna populate it at runtime.
So that's how you would reference
other shapes in the database.
It's a reference so you got that.
You can also do things like, let me see.
You can say faveFoods and
this is an array of strings.
So now you got favorite foods.
I mean there's a lot of
things you can do here,
you can do geospacial indexes,
you can do custom validators.
There's a lot of stuff, we really
won't get into all of that, but yeah,
this is the basics of creating
a schema with Mongoose.
So you would take that schema then you
would pass it into mongoose.Schema and
you'll get back a mongoose schema.
Mongoose has to validate that this
is real, and yeah, cool, yeah, yeah,
we like that, we like that, here you go.
Then you take that schema and
you exchange it for a model.
This method right here mongoose.model,
if you just pass it in without a schema,
it'll try to retrieve a model called song.
If you pass it in with a schema
it'll set a model called song,
so it's a getter and a setter.
So without the schema
it'll try to retrieve it,
with the schema it'll try to set it,
remember that.
There's also stuff we can do here,
we can do hooks,
we can do custom methods and
stuff like that.
For instance if I wanted
to say you know what,
I wanna do something every time
before this song schema is validated.
So I can say song schema, not you.
.pre('validate').
And this function will run before
every time the schema is validated.
So before any error's thrown because
you didn't pass in the right type or
you didn't meet the validations
I can run this function.
You can also do pre save,
post save, pre find one and update.
There's a lot of different trade
offs between what you're doing.
But yeah, these are hooks.
So this is really great to do things
like subscribing to data via web hooks.
The data changed, send a update to
everybody subscribed on this web hook or
something like that.
So it's really cool, send off an email
notification or whatever you want to do.
A lot of different stuff
you can do inside of it.
It's really cool.